specs/010-production-deployment/contracts/README.md, before:

# Production Deployment System - API Contracts

This directory contains the complete API contracts and interface definitions for the Production Deployment System.

## API Contract Files

### deployment-automation-api.yaml

#### Main deployment automation API specification

Contains the complete REST API definition for deployment automation operations:

- Deployment pipeline management
- Environment configuration
- Build and deployment orchestration
- Rollback procedures
- Deployment status tracking

### environment-management-api.yaml

#### Environment management and configuration API

Defines the environment management interfaces:

- Environment creation and configuration
- Environment-specific settings management
- Environment isolation and security
- Environment monitoring and health checks
- Environment backup and recovery

### monitoring-setup-api.yaml

#### Monitoring system setup and configuration API

Specifies the monitoring system interfaces:

- Monitoring dashboard configuration
- Alert rule management
- Metric collection setup
- Performance monitoring configuration
- Log aggregation and analysis

### security-hardening-api.yaml

#### Security hardening and validation API

Contains security validation interfaces:

- Security policy enforcement
- Vulnerability scanning automation
- Security audit and compliance
- Access control management
- Security incident response

### performance-optimization-api.yaml

#### Performance optimization and monitoring API

Defines performance optimization interfaces:

- Performance metric collection
- Performance testing automation
- Optimization recommendations
- Performance baseline management
- Performance regression detection

## Contract Structure

Each API contract follows the OpenAPI 3.0 specification format:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.3
info:
  title: Production Deployment API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: API for production deployment and monitoring

servers:
  - url: https://api.legacyguard.app/v1
    description: Production server

paths:
  /deployments:
    # Path definitions
  /deployments/{id}:
    # Individual deployment operations

components:
  schemas:
    # Data model definitions
  securitySchemes:
    # Authentication definitions
```

## Authentication

All APIs use JWT-based authentication with Clerk:

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:
    bearerAuth:
      type: http
      scheme: bearer
      bearerFormat: JWT
      description: JWT token from Clerk authentication

security:
  - bearerAuth: []
```

## Error Handling

Standardized error response format:

```yaml
ErrorResponse:
  type: object
  properties:
    error:
      type: object
      properties:
        code:
          type: string
          enum: [VALIDATION_ERROR, UNAUTHORIZED, NOT_FOUND, INTERNAL_ERROR]
        message:
          type: string
        details:
          type: object
```

## Data Models

### Deployment

```yaml
Deployment:
  type: object
  required:
    - id
    - environment
    - status
    - created_at
  properties:
    id:
      type: string
      format: uuid
    environment:
      type: string
      enum: [development, staging, production]
    status:
      type: string
      enum: [pending, building, deploying, success, failed, rolled_back]
    version:
      type: string
    commit_sha:
      type: string
    build_time:
      type: number
    deploy_time:
      type: number
    created_at:
      type: string
      format: date-time
    completed_at:
      type: string
      format: date-time
```

### Environment

```yaml
Environment:
  type: object
  required:
    - name
    - domain
    - config
  properties:
    name:
      type: string
      enum: [development, staging, production]
    domain:
      type: string
    config:
      type: object
      properties:
        database_url:
          type: string
        redis_url:
          type: string
        api_keys:
          type: object
    secrets:
      type: object
      description: Encrypted secrets configuration
```

## API Endpoints

### Deployment Automation

#### Create Deployment

```yaml
POST /deployments
summary: Create a new automated deployment
requestBody:
  required: true
  content:
    application/json:
      schema:
        $ref: '#/components/schemas/CreateDeploymentRequest'
responses:
  '201':
    description: Deployment created successfully
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          $ref: '#/components/schemas/Deployment'
```

#### Get Deployment Status

```yaml
GET /deployments/{id}/status
summary: Get deployment status and progress
parameters:
  - name: id
    in: path
    required: true
    schema:
      type: string
      format: uuid
responses:
  '200':
    description: Deployment status information
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            id:
              type: string
            status:
              type: string
            progress:
              type: number
            logs:
              type: array
              items:
                type: string
            estimated_completion:
              type: string
              format: date-time
```

### Environment Management

#### Configure Environment

```yaml
PUT /environments/{name}
summary: Update environment configuration
parameters:
  - name: name
    in: path
    required: true
    schema:
      type: string
      enum: [development, staging, production]
requestBody:
  required: true
  content:
    application/json:
      schema:
        $ref: '#/components/schemas/EnvironmentConfig'
responses:
  '200':
    description: Environment updated successfully
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          $ref: '#/components/schemas/Environment'
```

#### Get Environment Health

```yaml
GET /environments/{name}/health
summary: Get environment health status
parameters:
  - name: name
    in: path
    required: true
    schema:
      type: string
      enum: [development, staging, production]
responses:
  '200':
    description: Environment health information
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            status:
              type: string
              enum: [healthy, degraded, unhealthy]
            services:
              type: array
              items:
                type: object
                properties:
                  name:
                    type: string
                  status:
                    type: string
                  response_time:
                    type: number
                  last_checked:
                    type: string
                    format: date-time
```

### Monitoring Setup

#### Configure Monitoring

```yaml
POST /monitoring/config
summary: Configure monitoring settings
requestBody:
  required: true
  content:
    application/json:
      schema:
        $ref: '#/components/schemas/MonitoringConfig'
responses:
  '201':
    description: Monitoring configuration created
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          $ref: '#/components/schemas/MonitoringConfig'
```

#### Get Metrics

```yaml
GET /monitoring/metrics
summary: Get system metrics
parameters:
  - name: timeframe
    in: query
    schema:
      type: string
      enum: [1h, 24h, 7d, 30d]
      default: 24h
  - name: environment
    in: query
    schema:
      type: string
      enum: [development, staging, production]
responses:
  '200':
    description: System metrics
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            response_time:
              type: object
              properties:
                p50:
                  type: number
                p95:
                  type: number
                p99:
                  type: number
            error_rate:
              type: number
            throughput:
              type: number
            uptime:
              type: number
```

### Security Hardening

#### Run Security Scan

```yaml
POST /security/scans
summary: Initiate security scan
requestBody:
  required: true
  content:
    application/json:
      schema:
        type: object
        properties:
          type:
            type: string
            enum: [dependency, sast, container, iac]
          environment:
            type: string
            enum: [development, staging, production]
responses:
  '201':
    description: Security scan initiated
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            scan_id:
              type: string
            status:
              type: string
              enum: [pending, running]
            estimated_duration:
              type: number
```

#### Get Security Findings

```yaml
GET /security/findings
summary: Get security scan findings
parameters:
  - name: scan_id
    in: query
    schema:
      type: string
  - name: severity
    in: query
    schema:
      type: string
      enum: [low, medium, high, critical]
responses:
  '200':
    description: Security findings
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: array
          items:
            type: object
            properties:
              id:
                type: string
              severity:
                type: string
              title:
                type: string
              description:
                type: string
              location:
                type: string
              remediation:
                type: string
              status:
                type: string
                enum: [open, resolved, dismissed]
```

### Performance Optimization

#### Run Performance Test

```yaml
POST /performance/tests
summary: Run performance test
requestBody:
  required: true
  content:
    application/json:
      schema:
        type: object
        properties:
          type:
            type: string
            enum: [load, stress, spike, volume]
          environment:
            type: string
            enum: [development, staging, production]
          duration:
            type: number
            description: Test duration in minutes
responses:
  '201':
    description: Performance test initiated
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            test_id:
              type: string
            status:
              type: string
              enum: [pending, running]
            estimated_duration:
              type: number
```

#### Get Performance Report

```yaml
GET /performance/reports/{test_id}
summary: Get performance test report
parameters:
  - name: test_id
    in: path
    required: true
    schema:
      type: string
responses:
  '200':
    description: Performance test report
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            test_id:
              type: string
            status:
              type: string
              enum: [completed, failed]
            duration:
              type: number
            metrics:
              type: object
              properties:
                response_time:
                  type: object
                  properties:
                    avg:
                      type: number
                    p95:
                      type: number
                    p99:
                      type: number
                throughput:
                  type: number
                error_rate:
                  type: number
                cpu_usage:
                  type: number
                memory_usage:
                  type: number
```

## WebSocket Contracts

### Real-time Updates

#### Connection

```javascript
// Client connection
const ws = new WebSocket('wss://api.legacyguard.app/ws/deployments');

// Authentication
ws.send(JSON.stringify({
  type: 'auth',
  token: 'jwt_token_here'
}));
```

#### Message Types

```typescript
interface WebSocketMessage {
  type: 'deployment_status_update' | 'environment_health_change' | 'alert_triggered' | 'metric_threshold_exceeded';
  payload: any;
  timestamp: string;
}

// Deployment status update
{
  type: 'deployment_status_update',
  payload: {
    deployment_id: 'uuid',
    status: 'success',
    environment: 'production',
    duration: 300
  },
  timestamp: '2024-01-01T00:00:00Z'
}
```

## Rate Limiting

API rate limits to ensure fair usage:

```yaml
RateLimit:
  type: object
  properties:
    limit:
      type: integer
      description: Maximum requests per window
    remaining:
      type: integer
      description: Remaining requests in current window
    reset:
      type: integer
      description: Unix timestamp when limit resets
    window:
      type: string
      description: Time window (e.g., '1h', '1d')
```

## Versioning

API versioning strategy:

- **URL Path Versioning**: `/v1/deployments`
- **Header Versioning**: `Accept-Version: 1.0.0`
- **Backward Compatibility**: Maintain compatibility for 2 major versions
- **Deprecation Notices**: 6-month deprecation period

## Testing

### Contract Testing

```bash
# Validate OpenAPI specifications
npm run test:contracts

# Generate API documentation
npm run docs:generate

# Run integration tests
npm run test:integration
```

### Mock Servers

```bash
# Start mock API server
npm run mock:start

# Run contract tests against mocks
npm run test:contracts:mock
```

## Deployment Operations

### API Gateway Configuration

```yaml
api_gateway:
  routes:
    - path: /v1/deployments
      service: deployment-service
      methods: [GET, POST, PUT, DELETE]
    - path: /v1/environments
      service: environment-service
      methods: [GET, PUT]
    - path: /v1/monitoring
      service: monitoring-service
      methods: [GET, POST]
    - path: /v1/security
      service: security-service
      methods: [GET, POST]
    - path: /v1/performance
      service: performance-service
      methods: [GET, POST]
```

### Monitoring

```yaml
monitoring:
  endpoints:
    - /health
    - /metrics
    - /diagnostics
  alerts:
    - response_time > 500ms
    - error_rate > 5%
    - deployment_failure
```

## Security

### Security Authentication

- JWT tokens with Clerk integration
- Refresh token rotation
- Session management and timeouts

### Authorization

- Role-based access control (RBAC)
- Resource-level permissions
- API key management for service accounts

### Data Protection

- End-to-end encryption for sensitive data
- PII data minimization
- GDPR compliance measures

## Support

### Documentation

- **API Reference**: Complete endpoint documentation
- **Integration Guides**: Step-by-step integration tutorials
- **Code Examples**: Sample implementations in multiple languages
- **Troubleshooting**: Common issues and solutions

### Developer Resources

- **SDKs**: Client libraries for popular languages
- **Postman Collections**: Pre-configured API requests
- **Sandbox Environment**: Test environment with sample data
- **Community Support**: Forums and discussion channels

This contracts directory provides the complete API specification for the Production Deployment System, ensuring consistent implementation across all services and clear integration paths for external consumers.

Commit message:

docs(auth,rls,obs): replace Clerk with Supabase Auth and remove app.current_external_id usage; reinforce 'no Sentry' baseline across specs (integration-testing, i18n, production-deployment, database-types, vault, time-capsules, time-capsule-legacy, mobile-app)

specs/010-production-deployment/contracts/README.md, after:

# Production Deployment System - API Contracts

This directory contains the complete API contracts and interface definitions for the Production Deployment System.

## API Contract Files

### deployment-automation-api.yaml

#### Main deployment automation API specification

Contains the complete REST API definition for deployment automation operations:

- Deployment pipeline management
- Environment configuration
- Build and deployment orchestration
- Rollback procedures
- Deployment status tracking

### environment-management-api.yaml

#### Environment management and configuration API

Defines the environment management interfaces:

- Environment creation and configuration
- Environment-specific settings management
- Environment isolation and security
- Environment monitoring and health checks
- Environment backup and recovery

### monitoring-setup-api.yaml

#### Monitoring system setup and configuration API

Specifies the monitoring system interfaces:

- Monitoring dashboard configuration
- Alert rule management
- Metric collection setup
- Performance monitoring configuration
- Log aggregation and analysis

### security-hardening-api.yaml

#### Security hardening and validation API

Contains security validation interfaces:

- Security policy enforcement
- Vulnerability scanning automation
- Security audit and compliance
- Access control management
- Security incident response

### performance-optimization-api.yaml

#### Performance optimization and monitoring API

Defines performance optimization interfaces:

- Performance metric collection
- Performance testing automation
- Optimization recommendations
- Performance baseline management
- Performance regression detection

## Contract Structure

Each API contract follows the OpenAPI 3.0 specification format:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.3
info:
  title: Production Deployment API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: API for production deployment and monitoring

servers:
  - url: https://api.legacyguard.app/v1
    description: Production server

paths:
  /deployments:
    # Path definitions
  /deployments/{id}:
    # Individual deployment operations

components:
  schemas:
    # Data model definitions
  securitySchemes:
    # Authentication definitions
```

## Authentication

All APIs use JWT-based authentication with Supabase Auth:

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:
    bearerAuth:
      type: http
      scheme: bearer
      bearerFormat: JWT
      description: JWT token from Supabase Auth authentication

security:
  - bearerAuth: []
```

## Error Handling

Standardized error response format:

```yaml
ErrorResponse:
  type: object
  properties:
    error:
      type: object
      properties:
        code:
          type: string
          enum: [VALIDATION_ERROR, UNAUTHORIZED, NOT_FOUND, INTERNAL_ERROR]
        message:
          type: string
        details:
          type: object
```

## Data Models

### Deployment

```yaml
Deployment:
  type: object
  required:
    - id
    - environment
    - status
    - created_at
  properties:
    id:
      type: string
      format: uuid
    environment:
      type: string
      enum: [development, staging, production]
    status:
      type: string
      enum: [pending, building, deploying, success, failed, rolled_back]
    version:
      type: string
    commit_sha:
      type: string
    build_time:
      type: number
    deploy_time:
      type: number
    created_at:
      type: string
      format: date-time
    completed_at:
      type: string
      format: date-time
```

### Environment

```yaml
Environment:
  type: object
  required:
    - name
    - domain
    - config
  properties:
    name:
      type: string
      enum: [development, staging, production]
    domain:
      type: string
    config:
      type: object
      properties:
        database_url:
          type: string
        redis_url:
          type: string
        api_keys:
          type: object
    secrets:
      type: object
      description: Encrypted secrets configuration
```

## API Endpoints

### Deployment Automation

#### Create Deployment

```yaml
POST /deployments
summary: Create a new automated deployment
requestBody:
  required: true
  content:
    application/json:
      schema:
        $ref: '#/components/schemas/CreateDeploymentRequest'
responses:
  '201':
    description: Deployment created successfully
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          $ref: '#/components/schemas/Deployment'
```

#### Get Deployment Status

```yaml
GET /deployments/{id}/status
summary: Get deployment status and progress
parameters:
  - name: id
    in: path
    required: true
    schema:
      type: string
      format: uuid
responses:
  '200':
    description: Deployment status information
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            id:
              type: string
            status:
              type: string
            progress:
              type: number
            logs:
              type: array
              items:
                type: string
            estimated_completion:
              type: string
              format: date-time
```

### Environment Management

#### Configure Environment

```yaml
PUT /environments/{name}
summary: Update environment configuration
parameters:
  - name: name
    in: path
    required: true
    schema:
      type: string
      enum: [development, staging, production]
requestBody:
  required: true
  content:
    application/json:
      schema:
        $ref: '#/components/schemas/EnvironmentConfig'
responses:
  '200':
    description: Environment updated successfully
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          $ref: '#/components/schemas/Environment'
```

#### Get Environment Health

```yaml
GET /environments/{name}/health
summary: Get environment health status
parameters:
  - name: name
    in: path
    required: true
    schema:
      type: string
      enum: [development, staging, production]
responses:
  '200':
    description: Environment health information
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            status:
              type: string
              enum: [healthy, degraded, unhealthy]
            services:
              type: array
              items:
                type: object
                properties:
                  name:
                    type: string
                  status:
                    type: string
                  response_time:
                    type: number
                  last_checked:
                    type: string
                    format: date-time
```

### Monitoring Setup

#### Configure Monitoring

```yaml
POST /monitoring/config
summary: Configure monitoring settings
requestBody:
  required: true
  content:
    application/json:
      schema:
        $ref: '#/components/schemas/MonitoringConfig'
responses:
  '201':
    description: Monitoring configuration created
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          $ref: '#/components/schemas/MonitoringConfig'
```

#### Get Metrics

```yaml
GET /monitoring/metrics
summary: Get system metrics
parameters:
  - name: timeframe
    in: query
    schema:
      type: string
      enum: [1h, 24h, 7d, 30d]
      default: 24h
  - name: environment
    in: query
    schema:
      type: string
      enum: [development, staging, production]
responses:
  '200':
    description: System metrics
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            response_time:
              type: object
              properties:
                p50:
                  type: number
                p95:
                  type: number
                p99:
                  type: number
            error_rate:
              type: number
            throughput:
              type: number
            uptime:
              type: number
```

### Security Hardening

#### Run Security Scan

```yaml
POST /security/scans
summary: Initiate security scan
requestBody:
  required: true
  content:
    application/json:
      schema:
        type: object
        properties:
          type:
            type: string
            enum: [dependency, sast, container, iac]
          environment:
            type: string
            enum: [development, staging, production]
responses:
  '201':
    description: Security scan initiated
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            scan_id:
              type: string
            status:
              type: string
              enum: [pending, running]
            estimated_duration:
              type: number
```

#### Get Security Findings

```yaml
GET /security/findings
summary: Get security scan findings
parameters:
  - name: scan_id
    in: query
    schema:
      type: string
  - name: severity
    in: query
    schema:
      type: string
      enum: [low, medium, high, critical]
responses:
  '200':
    description: Security findings
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: array
          items:
            type: object
            properties:
              id:
                type: string
              severity:
                type: string
              title:
                type: string
              description:
                type: string
              location:
                type: string
              remediation:
                type: string
              status:
                type: string
                enum: [open, resolved, dismissed]
```

### Performance Optimization

#### Run Performance Test

```yaml
POST /performance/tests
summary: Run performance test
requestBody:
  required: true
  content:
    application/json:
      schema:
        type: object
        properties:
          type:
            type: string
            enum: [load, stress, spike, volume]
          environment:
            type: string
            enum: [development, staging, production]
          duration:
            type: number
            description: Test duration in minutes
responses:
  '201':
    description: Performance test initiated
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            test_id:
              type: string
            status:
              type: string
              enum: [pending, running]
            estimated_duration:
              type: number
```

#### Get Performance Report

```yaml
GET /performance/reports/{test_id}
summary: Get performance test report
parameters:
  - name: test_id
    in: path
    required: true
    schema:
      type: string
responses:
  '200':
    description: Performance test report
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            test_id:
              type: string
            status:
              type: string
              enum: [completed, failed]
            duration:
              type: number
            metrics:
              type: object
              properties:
                response_time:
                  type: object
                  properties:
                    avg:
                      type: number
                    p95:
                      type: number
                    p99:
                      type: number
                throughput:
                  type: number
                error_rate:
                  type: number
                cpu_usage:
                  type: number
                memory_usage:
                  type: number
```

## WebSocket Contracts

### Real-time Updates

#### Connection

```javascript
// Client connection
const ws = new WebSocket('wss://api.legacyguard.app/ws/deployments');

// Authentication
ws.send(JSON.stringify({
  type: 'auth',
  token: 'jwt_token_here'
}));
```

#### Message Types

```typescript
interface WebSocketMessage {
  type: 'deployment_status_update' | 'environment_health_change' | 'alert_triggered' | 'metric_threshold_exceeded';
  payload: any;
  timestamp: string;
}

// Deployment status update
{
  type: 'deployment_status_update',
  payload: {
    deployment_id: 'uuid',
    status: 'success',
    environment: 'production',
    duration: 300
  },
  timestamp: '2024-01-01T00:00:00Z'
}
```

## Rate Limiting

API rate limits to ensure fair usage:

```yaml
RateLimit:
  type: object
  properties:
    limit:
      type: integer
      description: Maximum requests per window
    remaining:
      type: integer
      description: Remaining requests in current window
    reset:
      type: integer
      description: Unix timestamp when limit resets
    window:
      type: string
      description: Time window (e.g., '1h', '1d')
```

## Versioning

API versioning strategy:

- **URL Path Versioning**: `/v1/deployments`
- **Header Versioning**: `Accept-Version: 1.0.0`
- **Backward Compatibility**: Maintain compatibility for 2 major versions
- **Deprecation Notices**: 6-month deprecation period

## Testing

### Contract Testing

```bash
# Validate OpenAPI specifications
npm run test:contracts

# Generate API documentation
npm run docs:generate

# Run integration tests
npm run test:integration
```

### Mock Servers

```bash
# Start mock API server
npm run mock:start

# Run contract tests against mocks
npm run test:contracts:mock
```

## Deployment Operations

### API Gateway Configuration

```yaml
api_gateway:
  routes:
    - path: /v1/deployments
      service: deployment-service
      methods: [GET, POST, PUT, DELETE]
    - path: /v1/environments
      service: environment-service
      methods: [GET, PUT]
    - path: /v1/monitoring
      service: monitoring-service
      methods: [GET, POST]
    - path: /v1/security
      service: security-service
      methods: [GET, POST]
    - path: /v1/performance
      service: performance-service
      methods: [GET, POST]
```

### Monitoring

```yaml
monitoring:
  endpoints:
    - /health
    - /metrics
    - /diagnostics
  alerts:
    - response_time > 500ms
    - error_rate > 5%
    - deployment_failure
```

## Security

### Security Authentication

- JWT tokens with Supabase Auth integration
- Refresh token rotation
- Session management and timeouts

### Authorization

- Role-based access control (RBAC)
- Resource-level permissions
- API key management for service accounts

### Data Protection

- End-to-end encryption for sensitive data
- PII data minimization
- GDPR compliance measures

## Support

### Documentation

- **API Reference**: Complete endpoint documentation
- **Integration Guides**: Step-by-step integration tutorials
- **Code Examples**: Sample implementations in multiple languages
- **Troubleshooting**: Common issues and solutions

### Developer Resources

- **SDKs**: Client libraries for popular languages
- **Postman Collections**: Pre-configured API requests
- **Sandbox Environment**: Test environment with sample data
- **Community Support**: Forums and discussion channels

This contracts directory provides the complete API specification for the Production Deployment System, ensuring consistent implementation across all services and clear integration paths for external consumers.
