specs/029-mobile-app/research.md, before:

# Mobile App Technical Research & Architecture Analysis

## Product Scope

### Mobile Legacy Management

- **Core Purpose**: Enable secure, offline-capable legacy document management on mobile devices
- **Target Users**: Individuals managing personal legal, financial, and family documents
- **Key Value**: Anywhere, anytime access to critical documents with enterprise-grade security
- **Market Position**: Premium mobile solution for digital estate planning and legacy management

### Hollywood Mobile System Integration

- **Existing Foundation**: Leverages Hollywood's Expo/React Native setup with Clerk auth and Tamagui UI
- **Migration Strategy**: Build upon existing mobile components while adding offline sync and push notifications
- **Component Reuse**: Utilize Hollywood's AsyncStorage patterns, SecureStore implementation, and navigation structure
- **Enhancement Focus**: Add biometric security, offline functionality, and push notification system
- **Dependency Chain**: 002-hollywood-migration → 011-mobile-app for core mobile packages and patterns

### Technical Scope

- **Platform Coverage**: iOS 15+ and Android 10+ with React Native and Expo
- **Offline Capability**: Full document access and basic functionality without internet (depends on 006-document-vault)
- **Security Requirements**: Biometric authentication, end-to-end encryption, secure key management (depends on 006-document-vault)
- **Performance Targets**: <2s cold start, 60fps animations, <100MB bundle size
- **Integration Points**: Supabase backend, Clerk authentication, cross-platform sync

## Technical Architecture

### React Native + Expo Framework

- **Framework Selection**: React Native 0.81+ with Expo SDK 53 for cross-platform development
- **Build System**: EAS Build for automated iOS/Android builds and deployments
- **Development Tools**: Expo CLI, Metro bundler, Flipper for debugging
- **Code Structure**: Feature-based architecture with shared packages and mobile-specific modules

### Mobile Services Integration

- **Authentication**: Clerk Expo for seamless auth with biometric support
- **Backend**: Supabase client with real-time subscriptions and offline sync
- **Storage**: AsyncStorage + SQLite for offline data, SecureStore for encryption keys
- **Notifications**: Expo Notifications with rich content and action support
- **Camera**: Expo Camera with OCR integration and document scanning
- **Security**: TweetNaCl for encryption, biometric authentication, secure key storage

### Offline Architecture

- **Data Persistence**: AsyncStorage for app state, SQLite for complex queries
- **Sync Strategy**: Optimistic updates with conflict resolution and background sync
- **Cache Management**: Intelligent caching with TTL and size limits
- **Network Detection**: Real-time connectivity monitoring with automatic sync triggers

## User Experience

### Mobile-First Design

- **Platform Patterns**: Native iOS and Android UX patterns and interactions
- **Responsive Layout**: Adaptive design for phones, tablets, and various screen sizes
- **Touch Interactions**: Gesture-based navigation and haptic feedback
- **Accessibility**: WCAG 2.1 AA compliance with screen reader support

### Offline Experience

- **Graceful Degradation**: Clear offline indicators and limited functionality messaging
- **Optimistic UI**: Immediate feedback for user actions with background sync
- **Conflict Resolution**: User-friendly conflict resolution for data synchronization
- **Background Processing**: Automatic sync when connectivity is restored

### Security UX

- **Biometric Flow**: Seamless biometric authentication with fallback options
- **Permission Management**: Clear permission requests with context and benefits
- **Security Indicators**: Visual cues for encrypted content and secure connections
- **Emergency Access**: Intuitive emergency activation with guardian verification

## Performance

### Mobile Performance Optimization

- **Bundle Size**: Code splitting, tree shaking, and asset optimization (<100MB)
- **Startup Time**: Hermes engine, lazy loading, and efficient initialization (<2s)
- **Runtime Performance**: 60fps animations, memory management, and battery optimization
- **Network Efficiency**: Request compression, caching, and intelligent prefetching

### Monitoring & Analytics

- **Performance Metrics**: App startup time, frame rate, memory usage, battery consumption
- **User Analytics**: Feature usage, error rates, session duration, conversion funnels
- **Crash Reporting**: Real-time crash detection with detailed stack traces
- **A/B Testing**: Feature flag system for gradual rollouts and experimentation

## Security

### Mobile Data Protection

- **Encryption**: End-to-end encryption for all sensitive data using TweetNaCl
- **Key Management**: Secure key storage in Secure Enclave with biometric binding
- **Certificate Pinning**: Prevent man-in-the-middle attacks on API communications
- **Runtime Security**: Jailbreak/root detection and response mechanisms

### Authentication & Authorization

- **Biometric Authentication**: Face ID, Touch ID, and fingerprint support with fallbacks (depends on 002-hollywood-migration)
- **Session Management**: Secure session handling with automatic timeout and renewal
- **Multi-Factor Authentication**: Layered security with biometric and PIN options
- **Emergency Access**: Controlled access protocols with audit trails and time limits (depends on 010-emergency-access)
- **Hardware Security**: Secure Enclave integration for key storage and biometric validation
- **Fallback Mechanisms**: PIN/password authentication for devices without biometric support
- **Session Binding**: Biometric session management with automatic lockout and re-authentication

## Accessibility

### Inclusive Design

- **Screen Reader Support**: Comprehensive VoiceOver and TalkBack compatibility
- **Keyboard Navigation**: Full keyboard accessibility for all interactive elements
- **High Contrast**: Support for high contrast mode and custom color schemes
- **Font Scaling**: Dynamic font sizing with minimum and maximum limits

### Platform Compliance

- **iOS Accessibility**: VoiceOver, Dynamic Type, AssistiveTouch compatibility
- **Android Accessibility**: TalkBack, font scaling, accessibility services integration
- **Cross-Platform**: Consistent accessibility experience across iOS and Android
- **Testing**: Automated accessibility testing and manual verification processes

## Analytics

### Usage Analytics

- **User Behavior**: Feature usage patterns, navigation flows, session analytics
- **Performance Metrics**: App responsiveness, error rates, crash frequency
- **Conversion Tracking**: Onboarding completion, feature adoption, subscription metrics
- **Retention Analysis**: User engagement, return patterns, churn indicators
- **Mobile-Specific Analytics**: Device type distribution, OS version adoption, screen size analytics

### Mobile Performance Monitoring

- **App Performance Metrics**: Cold start time, frame rate, memory usage, battery impact
- **Network Performance**: API response times, offline sync duration, data transfer efficiency
- **User Experience Metrics**: Task completion time, error recovery rate, user satisfaction scores
- **Device-Specific Monitoring**: Performance variations across device types and OS versions

### Privacy-First Approach

- **Consent Management**: Granular privacy controls and consent mechanisms
- **Data Minimization**: Collect only necessary data with clear retention policies
- **Anonymization**: Data anonymization and aggregation for privacy protection
- **Transparency**: Clear privacy notices and data usage explanations
- **GDPR Compliance**: EU user data protection with consent withdrawal options

## Future Enhancements

### Advanced Features

- **AI Integration**: Enhanced document analysis with machine learning
- **Collaborative Features**: Real-time document collaboration and sharing
- **Advanced OCR**: Multi-language OCR with form recognition
- **Voice Commands**: Voice-activated document access and management

### Platform Extensions

- **Wear OS**: Watch app for quick document access and notifications
- **Widgets**: Home screen widgets for quick actions and status
- **Shortcuts**: Siri/Assistant integration for voice commands
- **Auto-fill**: Integration with password managers and form auto-fill

### Performance Improvements

- **Edge Computing**: Reduced latency with edge function integration
- **Progressive Web App**: PWA capabilities for web-based access
- **Offline AI**: Local AI processing for enhanced offline capabilities
- **Advanced Caching**: Predictive caching and intelligent data prefetching

## Technical Architecture Decisions

### Framework & Platform Selection

#### Recommendation: React Native + Expo

**Pros:**

- Single codebase for iOS and Android
- Rich ecosystem of native modules
- Over-the-air updates capability
- Simplified development workflow
- Strong TypeScript support
- Excellent documentation and community

**Cons:**

- Platform-specific limitations
- Bundle size considerations
- Native module maintenance overhead

**Alternatives Considered:**

- Flutter: Strong performance but steeper learning curve
- Native iOS/Android: Maximum performance but duplicate effort
- Capacitor/Ionic: Web technologies but native feel limitations

### State Management Strategy

#### Recommendation: Zustand + React Query

**Rationale:**

- Lightweight and performant for mobile
- Excellent TypeScript integration
- Built-in persistence middleware
- Server state management with React Query
- Minimal boilerplate compared to Redux

**Implementation Pattern:**

```typescript
// Store with persistence
interface AppState {
  user: User | null;
  documents: Document[];
  isOnline: boolean;
}

const useAppStore = create<AppState>()(
  persist(
    (set, get) => ({
      // State and actions
    }),
    {
      name: 'app-storage',
      storage: createJSONStorage(() => AsyncStorage),
    }
  )
);
```

### Offline Architecture Implementation

**Core Requirements:**

- Document access without internet connectivity
- Emergency access functionality offline
- Data synchronization with conflict resolution
- Background sync capabilities

**Recommended Solution:**

- **AsyncStorage + SQLite**: Hybrid storage for different data types
- **Optimistic Updates**: Immediate UI feedback with rollback
- **Background Sync**: Automatic synchronization when connectivity returns
- **Conflict Resolution**: User-guided conflict resolution UI

**Technical Implementation:**

```typescript
// Offline queue management
class OfflineManager {
  private queue: SyncOperation[] = [];

  async enqueue(operation: SyncOperation) {
    this.queue.push(operation);
    await AsyncStorage.setItem('sync-queue', JSON.stringify(this.queue));
  }

  async processQueue() {
    if (!this.isOnline) return;

    for (const operation of this.queue) {
      try {
        await this.executeOperation(operation);
        this.queue.shift();
      } catch (error) {
        // Handle sync failures
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Security Architecture

### Biometric Authentication

**Implementation Strategy:**

- Expo LocalAuthentication for cross-platform support
- SecureStore for key storage in Secure Enclave
- Fallback to PIN/password for unsupported devices
- Session management with biometric timeout

**Security Considerations:**

- Hardware-backed key storage
- Biometric data never leaves device
- Secure key derivation from biometric authentication
- Certificate pinning for API communications

### Data Encryption

**Client-Side Encryption:**

- TweetNaCl for symmetric encryption
- PBKDF2 for key derivation from user passphrase
- Zero-knowledge architecture
- Encrypted storage in SecureStore

**Key Management:**

```typescript
class KeyManager {
  private static instance: KeyManager;

  async generateMasterKey(passphrase: string): Promise<string> {
    const salt = await SecureStore.getItemAsync('encryption-salt');
    return await pbkdf2(passphrase, salt, 10000, 32, 'sha256');
  }

  async encryptDocument(content: string, key: string): Promise<string> {
    const nonce = randomBytes(24);
    const encrypted = secretbox(content, nonce, key);
    return base64encode(nonce + encrypted);
  }
}
```

## Performance Optimization Strategies

### Bundle Size Optimization

**Techniques:**

- Code splitting by route and feature
- Tree shaking for unused dependencies
- Asset optimization and compression
- Dynamic imports for heavy components

**Target Metrics:**

- Initial bundle: <80MB
- Feature chunks: <5MB each
- Image assets: WebP format with responsive loading

### Runtime Performance

**Animation Performance:**

- Reanimated for 60fps animations
- Skia for complex graphics
- Hardware acceleration for transforms
- Reduced motion support

**Memory Management:**

- Component cleanup on unmount
- Image memory management
- List virtualization for large datasets
- Background task management

## Push Notification Architecture

### Implementation Strategy

**Expo Notifications:**

```typescript
import * as Notifications from 'expo-notifications';

Notifications.setNotificationHandler({
  handleNotification: async () => ({
    shouldShowAlert: true,
    shouldPlaySound: true,
    shouldSetBadge: true,
  }),
});

// Request permissions
const { status } = await Notifications.requestPermissionsAsync();

// Schedule notification
await Notifications.scheduleNotificationAsync({
  content: {
    title: 'Document Ready',
    body: 'Your will has been generated successfully',
  },
  trigger: { seconds: 60 },
});
```

**Privacy Considerations:**

- Granular permission controls
- User consent for different notification types
- Emergency notifications with high priority
- Notification preferences storage

## Testing Strategy

### Testing Pyramid

**Unit Tests (70% coverage):**

- Jest with React Native Testing Library
- Component testing with mock dependencies
- Business logic testing
- Utility function testing
- Hook testing with React Hooks Testing Library
- Service layer testing with mocked dependencies

**Integration Tests (20% coverage):**

- API integration testing with Supabase
- Offline sync testing with network mocking
- Authentication flow testing with Clerk
- Navigation testing with React Navigation
- Database integration testing with SQLite
- Push notification integration testing

**E2E Tests (10% coverage):**

- Maestro for cross-platform E2E testing
- Critical user journey validation
- Device-specific behavior testing
- Performance testing under various conditions
- Accessibility testing with automated tools
- Offline functionality E2E validation

### Device Testing Strategy

**Target Devices:**

- **iOS Devices**: iPhone SE (small screen), iPhone 12/13/14 (standard), iPhone 15 Pro (latest), iPad Pro 11"/12.9" (tablets)
- **Android Devices**: Pixel 5/6/7/8 (Google), Samsung Galaxy S21/S22/S23 (popular), Samsung Galaxy A series (budget)
- **OS Coverage**: iOS 15-17, Android 10-14
- **Screen Sizes**: 375x667 (iPhone SE), 390x844 (iPhone 12), 428x926 (iPhone 12 Pro Max), tablet sizes

**Testing Infrastructure:**

- Local device testing with physical devices
- Expo Development Client for rapid iteration
- EAS Build for automated test builds
- Device farm services (BrowserStack, AWS Device Farm)
- CI/CD integrated device testing
- Performance testing on various network conditions

## Deployment Strategy

### App Store Deployment

**iOS App Store:**

- Expo Application Services (EAS) Build
- TestFlight beta distribution
- App Store Connect submission
- Compliance with App Store guidelines

**Google Play Store:**

- EAS Build for Android
- Internal testing track
- Open beta testing
- Production release

### CI/CD Pipeline

**GitHub Actions Workflow:**

```yaml
name: Mobile CI/CD
on:
  push:
    branches: [main, develop]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  test:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v3
      - run: npm ci
      - run: npm run type-check
      - run: npm run test
      - run: npm run build

  build-ios:
    needs: test
    runs-on: macos-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - uses: expo/expo-github-action@v8
      - run: eas build --platform ios --profile production

  build-android:
    needs: test
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - uses: expo/expo-github-action@v8
      - run: eas build --platform android --profile production
```

## Risk Assessment & Mitigation

### Technical Risks

**Platform Fragmentation:**

- **Risk**: iOS/Android behavior differences
- **Mitigation**: Comprehensive device testing, Expo abstraction layer

**Performance Issues:**

- **Risk**: Memory leaks, battery drain, slow startup
- **Mitigation**: Performance monitoring, optimization audits, profiling tools

**Security Vulnerabilities:**

- **Risk**: Data breaches, insecure storage
- **Mitigation**: Security audits, dependency scanning, secure coding practices

### Business Risks

**App Store Rejection:**

- **Risk**: Non-compliance with platform policies
- **Mitigation**: Regular guideline reviews, legal consultation

**User Adoption:**

- **Risk**: Low mobile app adoption
- **Mitigation**: Feature parity with web, mobile-first UX design

**Maintenance Overhead:**

- **Risk**: React Native ecosystem changes
- **Mitigation**: Regular dependency updates, migration planning

## Success Metrics & KPIs

### Technical Metrics

- **Performance**: <2s cold start, 60fps animations, <100MB bundle
- **Reliability**: <0.5% crash rate, >99.5% uptime
- **Security**: Zero security vulnerabilities, compliant encryption
- **Coverage**: >85% test coverage, comprehensive E2E tests

### User Experience Metrics

- **Adoption**: 40% of users prefer mobile over web
- **Retention**: >70% monthly active users
- **Satisfaction**: >4.5/5 app store rating
- **Usage**: >80% of documents uploaded via mobile

### Business Metrics

- **Conversion**: >60% of mobile users create wills
- **Emergency Response**: <5 minute average emergency access time
- **Revenue**: 30% of subscriptions from mobile users

## Recommendations & Next Steps

### Immediate Actions (Week 1-2)

1. Set up Expo project with TypeScript
2. Implement basic authentication with Clerk
3. Create navigation structure and app shell
4. Set up AsyncStorage and SecureStore

### Short-term Goals (Month 1)

1. Implement document vault with offline access
2. Add camera integration and OCR
3. Create push notification system
4. Implement biometric authentication

### Medium-term Goals (Months 2-3)

1. Add Sofia AI mobile integration
2. Implement family collaboration features
3. Create professional network interface
4. Optimize performance and battery usage

### Long-term Vision (Months 4-6)

1. App Store and Play Store launch
2. Advanced offline capabilities
3. Tablet optimization
4. Continuous improvement based on user feedback

## Conclusion

The mobile app implementation represents a critical component of the LegacyGuard platform, providing users with secure, offline-capable access to their legacy planning tools. By leveraging React Native and Expo, we can deliver a native experience while maintaining development efficiency and code sharing with the web platform.

The architectural decisions outlined in this document balance technical excellence with practical implementation constraints, ensuring a scalable and maintainable mobile application that meets both user needs and business objectives.

Commit message:

Docs: standardize on Supabase Auth + RLS and observability baseline (no code)
- Add shared docs: auth-migration-playbook, rls-cookbook, observability baseline, env variables, RLS test template, storage policy design
- 002-nextjs-migration: replace Clerk references, add Auth/RLS/Observability notes
- 005-auth-rls-baseline: update plan and contracts README for Supabase Auth baseline
- 029-mobile-app: align research to Supabase Auth
- 011-monitoring-analytics: align RLS guidance to auth.uid() and transitional TEXT user_id note
- 010-production-deployment: reference observability baseline and staging synthetic alert test

specs/029-mobile-app/research.md, after:

# Mobile App Technical Research & Architecture Analysis

## Product Scope

### Mobile Legacy Management

- **Core Purpose**: Enable secure, offline-capable legacy document management on mobile devices
- **Target Users**: Individuals managing personal legal, financial, and family documents
- **Key Value**: Anywhere, anytime access to critical documents with enterprise-grade security
- **Market Position**: Premium mobile solution for digital estate planning and legacy management

### Hollywood Mobile System Integration

- **Existing Foundation**: Leverages Hollywood's Expo/React Native setup with Supabase Auth and Tamagui UI
- **Migration Strategy**: Build upon existing mobile components while adding offline sync and push notifications
- **Component Reuse**: Utilize Hollywood's AsyncStorage patterns, SecureStore implementation, and navigation structure
- **Enhancement Focus**: Add biometric security, offline functionality, and push notification system
- **Dependency Chain**: 002-hollywood-migration → 011-mobile-app for core mobile packages and patterns

### Technical Scope

- **Platform Coverage**: iOS 15+ and Android 10+ with React Native and Expo
- **Offline Capability**: Full document access and basic functionality without internet (depends on 006-document-vault)
- **Security Requirements**: Biometric authentication, end-to-end encryption, secure key management (depends on 006-document-vault)
- **Performance Targets**: <2s cold start, 60fps animations, <100MB bundle size
- **Integration Points**: Supabase backend, Clerk authentication, cross-platform sync

## Technical Architecture

### React Native + Expo Framework

- **Framework Selection**: React Native 0.81+ with Expo SDK 53 for cross-platform development
- **Build System**: EAS Build for automated iOS/Android builds and deployments
- **Development Tools**: Expo CLI, Metro bundler, Flipper for debugging
- **Code Structure**: Feature-based architecture with shared packages and mobile-specific modules

### Mobile Services Integration

- **Authentication**: Supabase Auth for seamless auth; use secure storage for session; biometric device unlock for app access
- **Backend**: Supabase client with real-time subscriptions and offline sync
- **Storage**: AsyncStorage + SQLite for offline data, SecureStore for encryption keys
- **Notifications**: Expo Notifications with rich content and action support
- **Camera**: Expo Camera with OCR integration and document scanning
- **Security**: TweetNaCl for encryption, biometric authentication, secure key storage

### Offline Architecture

- **Data Persistence**: AsyncStorage for app state, SQLite for complex queries
- **Sync Strategy**: Optimistic updates with conflict resolution and background sync
- **Cache Management**: Intelligent caching with TTL and size limits
- **Network Detection**: Real-time connectivity monitoring with automatic sync triggers

## User Experience

### Mobile-First Design

- **Platform Patterns**: Native iOS and Android UX patterns and interactions
- **Responsive Layout**: Adaptive design for phones, tablets, and various screen sizes
- **Touch Interactions**: Gesture-based navigation and haptic feedback
- **Accessibility**: WCAG 2.1 AA compliance with screen reader support

### Offline Experience

- **Graceful Degradation**: Clear offline indicators and limited functionality messaging
- **Optimistic UI**: Immediate feedback for user actions with background sync
- **Conflict Resolution**: User-friendly conflict resolution for data synchronization
- **Background Processing**: Automatic sync when connectivity is restored

### Security UX

- **Biometric Flow**: Seamless biometric authentication with fallback options
- **Permission Management**: Clear permission requests with context and benefits
- **Security Indicators**: Visual cues for encrypted content and secure connections
- **Emergency Access**: Intuitive emergency activation with guardian verification

## Performance

### Mobile Performance Optimization

- **Bundle Size**: Code splitting, tree shaking, and asset optimization (<100MB)
- **Startup Time**: Hermes engine, lazy loading, and efficient initialization (<2s)
- **Runtime Performance**: 60fps animations, memory management, and battery optimization
- **Network Efficiency**: Request compression, caching, and intelligent prefetching

### Monitoring & Analytics

- **Performance Metrics**: App startup time, frame rate, memory usage, battery consumption
- **User Analytics**: Feature usage, error rates, session duration, conversion funnels
- **Crash Reporting**: Real-time crash detection with detailed stack traces
- **A/B Testing**: Feature flag system for gradual rollouts and experimentation

## Security

### Mobile Data Protection

- **Encryption**: End-to-end encryption for all sensitive data using TweetNaCl
- **Key Management**: Secure key storage in Secure Enclave with biometric binding
- **Certificate Pinning**: Prevent man-in-the-middle attacks on API communications
- **Runtime Security**: Jailbreak/root detection and response mechanisms

### Authentication & Authorization

- **Biometric Authentication**: Face ID, Touch ID, and fingerprint support with fallbacks (depends on 002-hollywood-migration)
- **Session Management**: Secure session handling with automatic timeout and renewal
- **Multi-Factor Authentication**: Layered security with biometric and PIN options
- **Emergency Access**: Controlled access protocols with audit trails and time limits (depends on 010-emergency-access)
- **Hardware Security**: Secure Enclave integration for key storage and biometric validation
- **Fallback Mechanisms**: PIN/password authentication for devices without biometric support
- **Session Binding**: Biometric session management with automatic lockout and re-authentication

## Accessibility

### Inclusive Design

- **Screen Reader Support**: Comprehensive VoiceOver and TalkBack compatibility
- **Keyboard Navigation**: Full keyboard accessibility for all interactive elements
- **High Contrast**: Support for high contrast mode and custom color schemes
- **Font Scaling**: Dynamic font sizing with minimum and maximum limits

### Platform Compliance

- **iOS Accessibility**: VoiceOver, Dynamic Type, AssistiveTouch compatibility
- **Android Accessibility**: TalkBack, font scaling, accessibility services integration
- **Cross-Platform**: Consistent accessibility experience across iOS and Android
- **Testing**: Automated accessibility testing and manual verification processes

## Analytics

### Usage Analytics

- **User Behavior**: Feature usage patterns, navigation flows, session analytics
- **Performance Metrics**: App responsiveness, error rates, crash frequency
- **Conversion Tracking**: Onboarding completion, feature adoption, subscription metrics
- **Retention Analysis**: User engagement, return patterns, churn indicators
- **Mobile-Specific Analytics**: Device type distribution, OS version adoption, screen size analytics

### Mobile Performance Monitoring

- **App Performance Metrics**: Cold start time, frame rate, memory usage, battery impact
- **Network Performance**: API response times, offline sync duration, data transfer efficiency
- **User Experience Metrics**: Task completion time, error recovery rate, user satisfaction scores
- **Device-Specific Monitoring**: Performance variations across device types and OS versions

### Privacy-First Approach

- **Consent Management**: Granular privacy controls and consent mechanisms
- **Data Minimization**: Collect only necessary data with clear retention policies
- **Anonymization**: Data anonymization and aggregation for privacy protection
- **Transparency**: Clear privacy notices and data usage explanations
- **GDPR Compliance**: EU user data protection with consent withdrawal options

## Future Enhancements

### Advanced Features

- **AI Integration**: Enhanced document analysis with machine learning
- **Collaborative Features**: Real-time document collaboration and sharing
- **Advanced OCR**: Multi-language OCR with form recognition
- **Voice Commands**: Voice-activated document access and management

### Platform Extensions

- **Wear OS**: Watch app for quick document access and notifications
- **Widgets**: Home screen widgets for quick actions and status
- **Shortcuts**: Siri/Assistant integration for voice commands
- **Auto-fill**: Integration with password managers and form auto-fill

### Performance Improvements

- **Edge Computing**: Reduced latency with edge function integration
- **Progressive Web App**: PWA capabilities for web-based access
- **Offline AI**: Local AI processing for enhanced offline capabilities
- **Advanced Caching**: Predictive caching and intelligent data prefetching

## Technical Architecture Decisions

### Framework & Platform Selection

#### Recommendation: React Native + Expo

**Pros:**

- Single codebase for iOS and Android
- Rich ecosystem of native modules
- Over-the-air updates capability
- Simplified development workflow
- Strong TypeScript support
- Excellent documentation and community

**Cons:**

- Platform-specific limitations
- Bundle size considerations
- Native module maintenance overhead

**Alternatives Considered:**

- Flutter: Strong performance but steeper learning curve
- Native iOS/Android: Maximum performance but duplicate effort
- Capacitor/Ionic: Web technologies but native feel limitations

### State Management Strategy

#### Recommendation: Zustand + React Query

**Rationale:**

- Lightweight and performant for mobile
- Excellent TypeScript integration
- Built-in persistence middleware
- Server state management with React Query
- Minimal boilerplate compared to Redux

**Implementation Pattern:**

```typescript
// Store with persistence
interface AppState {
  user: User | null;
  documents: Document[];
  isOnline: boolean;
}

const useAppStore = create<AppState>()(
  persist(
    (set, get) => ({
      // State and actions
    }),
    {
      name: 'app-storage',
      storage: createJSONStorage(() => AsyncStorage),
    }
  )
);
```

### Offline Architecture Implementation

**Core Requirements:**

- Document access without internet connectivity
- Emergency access functionality offline
- Data synchronization with conflict resolution
- Background sync capabilities

**Recommended Solution:**

- **AsyncStorage + SQLite**: Hybrid storage for different data types
- **Optimistic Updates**: Immediate UI feedback with rollback
- **Background Sync**: Automatic synchronization when connectivity returns
- **Conflict Resolution**: User-guided conflict resolution UI

**Technical Implementation:**

```typescript
// Offline queue management
class OfflineManager {
  private queue: SyncOperation[] = [];

  async enqueue(operation: SyncOperation) {
    this.queue.push(operation);
    await AsyncStorage.setItem('sync-queue', JSON.stringify(this.queue));
  }

  async processQueue() {
    if (!this.isOnline) return;

    for (const operation of this.queue) {
      try {
        await this.executeOperation(operation);
        this.queue.shift();
      } catch (error) {
        // Handle sync failures
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Security Architecture

### Biometric Authentication

**Implementation Strategy:**

- Expo LocalAuthentication for cross-platform support
- SecureStore for key storage in Secure Enclave
- Fallback to PIN/password for unsupported devices
- Session management with biometric timeout

**Security Considerations:**

- Hardware-backed key storage
- Biometric data never leaves device
- Secure key derivation from biometric authentication
- Certificate pinning for API communications

### Data Encryption

**Client-Side Encryption:**

- TweetNaCl for symmetric encryption
- PBKDF2 for key derivation from user passphrase
- Zero-knowledge architecture
- Encrypted storage in SecureStore

**Key Management:**

```typescript
class KeyManager {
  private static instance: KeyManager;

  async generateMasterKey(passphrase: string): Promise<string> {
    const salt = await SecureStore.getItemAsync('encryption-salt');
    return await pbkdf2(passphrase, salt, 10000, 32, 'sha256');
  }

  async encryptDocument(content: string, key: string): Promise<string> {
    const nonce = randomBytes(24);
    const encrypted = secretbox(content, nonce, key);
    return base64encode(nonce + encrypted);
  }
}
```

## Performance Optimization Strategies

### Bundle Size Optimization

**Techniques:**

- Code splitting by route and feature
- Tree shaking for unused dependencies
- Asset optimization and compression
- Dynamic imports for heavy components

**Target Metrics:**

- Initial bundle: <80MB
- Feature chunks: <5MB each
- Image assets: WebP format with responsive loading

### Runtime Performance

**Animation Performance:**

- Reanimated for 60fps animations
- Skia for complex graphics
- Hardware acceleration for transforms
- Reduced motion support

**Memory Management:**

- Component cleanup on unmount
- Image memory management
- List virtualization for large datasets
- Background task management

## Push Notification Architecture

### Implementation Strategy

**Expo Notifications:**

```typescript
import * as Notifications from 'expo-notifications';

Notifications.setNotificationHandler({
  handleNotification: async () => ({
    shouldShowAlert: true,
    shouldPlaySound: true,
    shouldSetBadge: true,
  }),
});

// Request permissions
const { status } = await Notifications.requestPermissionsAsync();

// Schedule notification
await Notifications.scheduleNotificationAsync({
  content: {
    title: 'Document Ready',
    body: 'Your will has been generated successfully',
  },
  trigger: { seconds: 60 },
});
```

**Privacy Considerations:**

- Granular permission controls
- User consent for different notification types
- Emergency notifications with high priority
- Notification preferences storage

## Testing Strategy

### Testing Pyramid

**Unit Tests (70% coverage):**

- Jest with React Native Testing Library
- Component testing with mock dependencies
- Business logic testing
- Utility function testing
- Hook testing with React Hooks Testing Library
- Service layer testing with mocked dependencies

**Integration Tests (20% coverage):**

- API integration testing with Supabase
- Offline sync testing with network mocking
- Authentication flow testing with Clerk
- Navigation testing with React Navigation
- Database integration testing with SQLite
- Push notification integration testing

**E2E Tests (10% coverage):**

- Maestro for cross-platform E2E testing
- Critical user journey validation
- Device-specific behavior testing
- Performance testing under various conditions
- Accessibility testing with automated tools
- Offline functionality E2E validation

### Device Testing Strategy

**Target Devices:**

- **iOS Devices**: iPhone SE (small screen), iPhone 12/13/14 (standard), iPhone 15 Pro (latest), iPad Pro 11"/12.9" (tablets)
- **Android Devices**: Pixel 5/6/7/8 (Google), Samsung Galaxy S21/S22/S23 (popular), Samsung Galaxy A series (budget)
- **OS Coverage**: iOS 15-17, Android 10-14
- **Screen Sizes**: 375x667 (iPhone SE), 390x844 (iPhone 12), 428x926 (iPhone 12 Pro Max), tablet sizes

**Testing Infrastructure:**

- Local device testing with physical devices
- Expo Development Client for rapid iteration
- EAS Build for automated test builds
- Device farm services (BrowserStack, AWS Device Farm)
- CI/CD integrated device testing
- Performance testing on various network conditions

## Deployment Strategy

### App Store Deployment

**iOS App Store:**

- Expo Application Services (EAS) Build
- TestFlight beta distribution
- App Store Connect submission
- Compliance with App Store guidelines

**Google Play Store:**

- EAS Build for Android
- Internal testing track
- Open beta testing
- Production release

### CI/CD Pipeline

**GitHub Actions Workflow:**

```yaml
name: Mobile CI/CD
on:
  push:
    branches: [main, develop]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  test:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v3
      - run: npm ci
      - run: npm run type-check
      - run: npm run test
      - run: npm run build

  build-ios:
    needs: test
    runs-on: macos-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - uses: expo/expo-github-action@v8
      - run: eas build --platform ios --profile production

  build-android:
    needs: test
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - uses: expo/expo-github-action@v8
      - run: eas build --platform android --profile production
```

## Risk Assessment & Mitigation

### Technical Risks

**Platform Fragmentation:**

- **Risk**: iOS/Android behavior differences
- **Mitigation**: Comprehensive device testing, Expo abstraction layer

**Performance Issues:**

- **Risk**: Memory leaks, battery drain, slow startup
- **Mitigation**: Performance monitoring, optimization audits, profiling tools

**Security Vulnerabilities:**

- **Risk**: Data breaches, insecure storage
- **Mitigation**: Security audits, dependency scanning, secure coding practices

### Business Risks

**App Store Rejection:**

- **Risk**: Non-compliance with platform policies
- **Mitigation**: Regular guideline reviews, legal consultation

**User Adoption:**

- **Risk**: Low mobile app adoption
- **Mitigation**: Feature parity with web, mobile-first UX design

**Maintenance Overhead:**

- **Risk**: React Native ecosystem changes
- **Mitigation**: Regular dependency updates, migration planning

## Success Metrics & KPIs

### Technical Metrics

- **Performance**: <2s cold start, 60fps animations, <100MB bundle
- **Reliability**: <0.5% crash rate, >99.5% uptime
- **Security**: Zero security vulnerabilities, compliant encryption
- **Coverage**: >85% test coverage, comprehensive E2E tests

### User Experience Metrics

- **Adoption**: 40% of users prefer mobile over web
- **Retention**: >70% monthly active users
- **Satisfaction**: >4.5/5 app store rating
- **Usage**: >80% of documents uploaded via mobile

### Business Metrics

- **Conversion**: >60% of mobile users create wills
- **Emergency Response**: <5 minute average emergency access time
- **Revenue**: 30% of subscriptions from mobile users

## Recommendations & Next Steps

### Immediate Actions (Week 1-2)

1. Set up Expo project with TypeScript
2. Implement basic authentication with Clerk
3. Create navigation structure and app shell
4. Set up AsyncStorage and SecureStore

### Short-term Goals (Month 1)

1. Implement document vault with offline access
2. Add camera integration and OCR
3. Create push notification system
4. Implement biometric authentication

### Medium-term Goals (Months 2-3)

1. Add Sofia AI mobile integration
2. Implement family collaboration features
3. Create professional network interface
4. Optimize performance and battery usage

### Long-term Vision (Months 4-6)

1. App Store and Play Store launch
2. Advanced offline capabilities
3. Tablet optimization
4. Continuous improvement based on user feedback

## Conclusion

The mobile app implementation represents a critical component of the LegacyGuard platform, providing users with secure, offline-capable access to their legacy planning tools. By leveraging React Native and Expo, we can deliver a native experience while maintaining development efficiency and code sharing with the web platform.

The architectural decisions outlined in this document balance technical excellence with practical implementation constraints, ensuring a scalable and maintainable mobile application that meets both user needs and business objectives.
